Know that you had you started arguing an integrated development environment we are ready to start developing
our first program.
And we are going to use the ultrasonic ring sensor in this example and ultrasonic sensor devices allow
us to estimate that age to obstacles using ultrasound signals.
Let us first understand how an ultrasonic sensor works that we create sensor has two users which are
microphones used to send and receive pulse signals.
The first transducer will send a pulse signal by sending a low signal first which is zero then high
that that is one and then a low signal that is zero.
And when the signal is an obstacle it is going to bounce back and be received by the microphone.
The sensor will then estimate the distance obstacle by measuring the duration between sending the high
pulse signal and receiving it back by the receiver the time calculated is the down time to the obstacle
which will be divided by two.
We'll have the actualisation in one direction and then it will be multiplied by the speed of the sun
in the air which is three hundred forty meters per second.
And that's all the process is repeated and ranges are measured periodically every certain number of
milliseconds.
Sensors can be used in many applications such as presence to detect intruders lover for container for
example smart containers or what the level measurement position and distance.
They are also called proximity sensors.
I walk also to attract your attention that there are different types of sensors in the market.
The first type is the h g s r 0 4 sensor which has four points.
The left beam is four pounds of light Vcc is for the ground and the two the best in the middle are four
to six months.
The three beam is responsible for something the height bounced signal whereas the copy is responsible
for the reception of the echo.
After that it bounces back against an obstacle.
The order may change from one manufacturers to an other but in total we have four means where two different
signal pins are used one for sending the pulse and the second is for receiving the bus.
The second type is the parallax being sensor.
It has only three beats one for this is the one for the ground and only one bill for CNN.
It's good to see the same signal being used for both being the pulse and also receiving the echo.
So it will take between two states.
We will be using this type of sensor in our demonstration and implementation.
And you will figure out later on how the same being can be used for sending and receiving on the right
side of the slide the exact sensor that you will be using in the implementation.
It's show but you can observe it it has for this although the biggies being like sensor like this one.
So we can observe that it has the ground been and will be on the left side.
And then it has the NCP that is not used for any signal.
And you have healed the sick in on the right side which is used for both sending the pulse and receiving
it back.
We'll be connecting this being to let his input output pin number seven for sending and receiving pulses.
Let us see how to connect the sensors to the arm you know what.
So basically the connection schema will be as follows you'll have a nutritionist some sort of the brain
be connected to you know work.
So as you can see we connected to the fibroid power to the ground and the signal will be connected to
being here.
So we're going to try pin number so that you can find more details about this sunset which is called
The Big sensor in this website or we know that CCDs flush toilets flush speak.
So if you open up and use the ex-president and this other require devices that we use in this experiment
all you have an answer or one when we have an I.V. machine that you are going to use to collect the
sensor.
It is going to be touched.
You know when you have a sensor.
OK.
This is the warping connector.
They use the cable to connect the board to the laptop.
So this is the wrestlings so that we are going to use.
So as you can see it has four beams OK and one foot down.
That is the one on the left side.
Then you see them and see which one is not.
And then you have the signal being OK so the signal ping is going to sound and echo signal and then
it receives back a response that will be used correctly to estimate the range to an obstacle using the
song saying.
OK so in order to make the connection first of all we need to put the sheet on the Adreno or by this
going to get the seat of the unknown and then use the 4 pin connector.
And you like it here.
The sensor so you can see the wire.
OK.
Response to the signal.
And that is why Autocar response to the VCAT and the black wire corresponds to the ground.
And then you're going to the number seven.
What are the connections on here in DC.
Because this is a digital sensor so I'm going to put it here.
Nice.
OK.
And you can see what this wired the yellow wire to the server.
Ok so this is the.
But will be used for the system.
We will see later on how to use this in the program but only the sensor estimate the distance to an
optical.
And finally we need to get that border locked up like this.